=head1 NAME

apt-cudf - CUDF solver integration for APT

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item B<solvername>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

apt-cudf translates back and forth among a CUDF-based dependency solver and the
protocol used by APT to talk with external dependency solvers. apt-cudf
therefore allows to use any CUDF solver as an external solver for APT.

apt-cudf relies on its C<argv[0]> name to find the CUDF solver to invoke.  In
common setups, you should have a CUDF solver specification file under
F</usr/share/cudf/solvers/> for each installed CUDF solver. To use one such
solver with APT, you should create a symbolic link pointing to
F</usr/bin/apt-cudf> under F</usr/lib/apt/solvers/> and call it with the name
of the CUDF solver you want to use.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -v

=item --verbose

Print debugging information during operation. Can be repeated.

=item -h

=item --help

Show usage information and exit.

=item --version

Show program's version and exit.

=item --dump

Dump the cudf universe and solution

=item --noop

Dump the cudf universe and solution and exit. This is useful to generate a cudf universe from a edsp file

=item --conf

Use a configuration file. Default in /etc/apt-cudf.conf

=item -s <solver>

=item --solver <solver>

Specify the external solver to use.

=item -e

=item --explain

Print a human-readable summary of the solution.

=item --native-arch

Speficy the native architecture to be used in the edsp -> cudf translation. By default apt-cudf
uses apt-config to deduce the native architecture. This option is useful if the edsp was generated
on a machine with a different architecture.

=item --foreign-archs

A comma-separated list of foreign architectures to be used in the edsp -> cudf translation

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

apt-get(8), update-cudf-solvers(8),
L<README.cudf-solvers|file:///usr/share/doc/apt-cudf/README.cudf-solvers>,
L<README.Debian|file:///usr/share/doc/apt-cudf/README.Debian>

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright: (C) 2011 Pietro Abate <pietro.abate@pps.jussieu.fr>
Copyright: (C) 2011 Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@debian.org>

License: GNU Lesser General Public License (GPL), version 3 or above

=cut
