.TH ceve 1 "November 11, 2010" "Version 3.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ceve \- parse package metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ceve
[\-h] [\-v] [\-e
.IR pkgspec ]
[\-c
.IR pkgspec ]
[\-r
.IR pkgspec ]
.RI [\-\-depth= n ]
[\-t
.IR format ]
[\-o
.IR filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ceve is a generalized metadata parser. It reads package specifications,
extracts package metadata from them, performs some manipulations, and outputs
the package metadata in one of several formats.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
This option displays the help message. Can also be specified as
.BR \-\-help .
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose. This option can be repeated for more verbosity.
.TP
.BI "\-e " pkgspec
Extract the transitive closure of packages connected (by conflict or
dependency) to any of the packages that satisfy
.IR pkgspec .
Such a package specification is a list of packages (separated by a semicolon),
where each package is specified as follows:
.RI ( name , version ).
This option can also be specified as
.RI "\-\-extract=" pkgspec .
.TP
.BI "\-c " pkgspec
Similar to the
.B \-c
option, but only uses the dependency relation to make the transitive closure.
This option can also be specified as
.RI "\-\-cone=" pkgspec .
.TP
.BI "\-r " pkgspec
Similar to the
.B \-e
and
.B \-c
options, but uses the reverse dependency relation to make the transitive
closure. This option can also be specified as
.RI "\-\-rcone=" pkgspec .
.TP
.BI "\-\-depth=" n
In combination with the
.BR -e ,
.B -c
or
.B -r
options, this specifies the maximum depth for the transitive closure.
.TP
.BI "\-t " format
Specifies the output format to use. Possible values are
.B dot
for a graph output in Dot/GraphViz format,
.B cnf
for an output in CNF format,
.B dimacs
for an output in the DIMACS format for CNF formulae, and
.B pp
for a pretty-print output in an RFC 822-like format. This option can also be
specified as
.RI "\-\-outtype=" format .
.TP
.BI "\-o " filename
Instead of stdout, send output to the file
.IR filename .
This option can also be specified as
.RI "\-\-outfile=" filename .
